Doc: Expand breaking changes (#13693)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/breaking-changes-80.asciidoc

In Logstash 8, this compatibility mode will be on-by-default for all pipelines. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/issues/11623[#11623]

If you wish to _lock in_ a pipeline's behaviour from Logstash 7.x before upgrading to Logstash 8, you can set  `pipeline.ecs_compatibility: disabled` to its definition in `pipelines.yml` (or globally in `logstash.yml`).

[discrete]
[[bc-ruby-engine]]
===== Ruby Execution Engine removed
The Java Execution Engine has been the default engine since Logstash 7.0, and works with plugins written in either Ruby or Java.
Removal of the Ruby Execution Engine will not affect the ability to run existing pipelines. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12517[#12517]

[discrete]
[[bc-utf-16]]
===== Support for UTF-16
We have added support for UTF-16 and other multi-byte-character when reading log files. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/9702[#9702]

[discrete]
[[bc-field-ref-parser]]
===== Field Reference parser configuration setting removed
The Field Reference parser interprets references to fields in your pipelines and plugins.

> A configuration option that has had only one option since 7.0 was removed in 8.0 and is no longer recognized.

Author: ```suggestion
Its behavior was configurable in 6.x, and 7.x allowed only a single option: `strict`.
8.0 no longer recognizes the setting, but maintains the same behavior as the `strict` setting.
{ls} rejects ambiguous and illegal inputs as standard behavior.
```

[[breaking-8.0]]
=== Breaking changes in 8.0
Here are the breaking changes for 8.0.
//NOTE: The notable-breaking-changes tagged regions are re-used in the
//Installation and Upgrade Guide

// tag::notable-breaking-changes[]
[discrete]
[[security-on-8.0]]
===== Secure communication with {es} 

> {ls} must establish a secure connection using an {es} self-signed SSL certificate before it can transfer data to an on-premise {es} cluster. 
> {es} generates its own default self-signed Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificates at startup. 
> {ls} must have a copy of the {es} CA and the self-signed certicate to establish a secure connection. 

Reviewer: Tricky:

Many on-prem ES's use full PKI (Public Key Infrastructure, with org-specific Certificate Authorities) and _not_ self-signed certs, and these notes are incorrect for those security-minded orgs.

The upstream change that we are reacting to is that _IFF_ an on-prem Elasticsearch cluster is started without certificates, the first node in the cluster bootstraps itself with self-signed certificate authority, which it uses to generate and sign certificates for other nodes in the cluster and anything that connects to it will need to be configured to trust certs signed by _that_ self-signed CA.

No matter how the cluster is configured, Logstash needs to have access to the relevant CA -- it's just that if the user _doesn't_ explicitly configure security on the Elasticsearch cluster, they need to know that the CA is self-signed and generated by the cluster (so they can know where to get it from).

```suggestion
{ls} must establish a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) connection before it can transfer data to an on-premise {es} cluster. 
{ls} must have a copy of the {es} CA that signed the cluster's certificates.
When a new {es} cluster is started up _without_ dedicated certificates, it generates its own default self-signed Certificate Authority at startup.
```

Nitpick: the certs themselves aren't "SSL certificates" (that's like saying "a high-five hand" -- naming the thing after one of many possible uses)

Our hosted {ess} simplifies safe, secure communication between Logstash and Elasticsearch. 

> {ess} uses standard publicly trusted certificates, and therefore setting a cacert is not necessary.

Reviewer: Mayyyybe too much of a nitpick?

```suggestion
{ess} uses certificates signed by standard publicly trusted certificate authorities, and therefore setting a cacert is not necessary.
```

Author: Not at all! I like it. Thanks for this and the other suggestions.

Many plugins can now be run in a mode that avoids implicit conflict with the Elastic Common Schema.
This mode is controlled individually with each plugin's `ecs_compatibility` option, which defaults to the value of the Logstash `pipeline.ecs_compatibility` setting.
In Logstash 8, this compatibility mode will be on-by-default for all pipelines. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/issues/11623[#11623]

If you wish to _lock in_ a pipeline's behaviour from Logstash 7.x before upgrading to Logstash 8, you can set  `pipeline.ecs_compatibility: disabled` to its definition in `pipelines.yml` (or globally in `logstash.yml`).

[discrete]
[[bc-ruby-engine]]
===== Ruby Execution Engine removed
The Java Execution Engine has been the default engine since Logstash 7.0, and works with plugins written in either Ruby or Java.
Removal of the Ruby Execution Engine will not affect the ability to run existing pipelines. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/12517[#12517]

[discrete]
[[bc-utf-16]]
===== Support for UTF-16
We have added support for UTF-16 and other multi-byte-character when reading log files. https://github.com/elastic/logstash/pull/9702[#9702]

[discrete]
[[bc-field-ref-parser]]

> ===== Field Reference parser removed
> The Field Reference parser interprets references to fields in your pipelines and
> plugins. It was configurable in 7.x, with the default set to strict to reject
> inputs that are ambiguous or illegal. Configurability is removed in 8.0. Now
> {ls} rejects ambiguous and illegal inputs as standard behavior.

Reviewer: It was configurable in 6.x, but since 7.0 has only allowed a single option and 8.0 no longer recognizes the setting.

```suggestion
===== Field Reference parser configuration setting removed
The Field Reference parser interprets references to fields in your pipelines and plugins.
A configuration option that has had only one option since 7.0 was removed in 8.0 and is no longer recognized.
```

Author: Do the "one option" at 7.0 and "no longer recognized" result in the same behavior?

Reviewer: Behaviour:
 - 6.x: new setting provided two choices so that a user could opt into `strict` before upgrading to 7.x
 - 7.0: setting remains, but `strict` is the _only_ option and other options result in an error that prevents startup (so that a user who _did_ opt in early can start with identical config)
 - 8.0: behaves exactly like 7.x, only there is no longer a setting.

Author: What do you think about explaining back to 6.x to help users understand the progression. 7.x with only one config option makes more sense in context of a progression from permissive to restrictive.  

Maybe something like: 

> The Field Reference parser interprets references to fields in your pipelines and plugins.
Its behavior was configurable in 6.x, and 7.x allowed only a single option.
 8.0 no longer recognizes the setting.
Now {ls} rejects ambiguous and illegal inputs as standard behavior.

> {ls} rejects ambiguous and illegal inputs as standard behavior.

Author: ```suggestion
The Field Reference parser interprets references to fields in your pipelines and plugins.
Its behavior was configurable in 6.x, and 7.x allowed only a single option: `strict`.
8.0 no longer recognizes the setting, but maintains the same behavior as the strict setting.
{ls} rejects ambiguous and illegal inputs as standard behavior.
```
